# Let there be light

- Create a world map with:
	- A grid of sky blocks and five layers of air blocks.
	- A calendar with the weather for each hour, width a preview widget.
- Display the world with:
	- A widget that shows the time and the weather.
	- A widget controls the speed of time, pauses, and skips any number of time blocks.
	- A widget that filters any block's properties.

## Page
- The user should be able to create a map file. The map requires horizontal dimensions to be set to it. This will create the size of the grid of sky blocks. Additionally, the weather must also be added in this step using an input of an IRL location and a year.
- The user should be able to save and load the current preset as a file.
- The created world will add five layers of air blocks that will be used to observe the changes in the weather.
- Calendar preview where the user can see what the weather will be on any date.
* When setting the world or loading a preset file, enable the world viewer phase.
#maybe 
- Statistics for the values. How average the values are? How much does it change in a day or month? Visually graph the changes of every value along the year.

### Top Navigation
- Widgets (Disabled without a loaded world)
	- Environment 
	- Property Filter
	- Time Control
	- Usage Indicator
#maybe 
- Debug menu for 

## Widgets

### Environment
- Bit value (0-n)
- Human value (°C for temperature, words like "sunny" for humidity, and percentage for light level)
- A visual gauge.
- Current time and date
- The number of days that have passed.

### Property Filter
- An input select with the block types.
- When the block type is selected, there is a radio fieldset with the property to filter.

### Time Control
- Play/Pause buttons
- Skip x-number of ticks/minutes/hours/days. For buttons, one for every time block and a number input for the number of skips.
- Input multiplier for the tick speed.

### Usage Indicator
- Number in ms of how much time it took to do all calculations.

## Tests

### No time drift
- Check if the duration of 60 ticks is exactly one minute.

## Out of scope
### Soil looseness or sand
It brings no features and is used for aesthetic purposes. The concept of dirt looseness is also ignored because it adds too much complexity to the relationship between dirt and plant.

### Respiration, oxygen, and carbon
These ideas will be ignored for the time being. Creatures will not breathe and plants will not photosynthesize. Even though respiration is extremely interesting and important for these organisms I find it not essential for this simulation's purposes.

### Gravity in any block other than water
Dirt crumbling in, rocks falling when unsupported, and other gravity phenomena will be ignored until further versions.

### Water life
The water's only role in life is hydration. There will be no nutrients, decomposer organisms, plants, or even further than that, fish. Water blocks are meant to be a risk for organisms like in the flooding or drowning of ants, or the overwatering of plants.

### Light directionality
The universe I'm creating is a small flat box with a light source that points perpendicularly down. Cloudy days won't affect the direction of light eighter, they just reduce the maximum light level of the day.

### Wind
The air inside the universe will be perfectly still with no currents of any kind.

---

## File saves
For the simulation to work, certain files must be written to save weather information, a pause for a simulation to be continued later, or a history file to replay what happened in a simulation

### Weather File
The world's weather information must be stored somewhere. It must store all environmental values for every hour of the year.